Data warehouse vs Data lake : 
Data warehouse
   A data warehouse is often built on top of a relational database such as Microsoft, SQL Server, Oracle or IBM DB2 
   Relational databases are also used for transactional systems and applications, not just data warehousing.
   So you can think of a relational database as a general purpose data management engine that's useful in various settings.
   Sometimes we also build a data warehouse on top of a multidimensional database that's typically known as a cube.
   (think of a cube as sort of a special purpose database, not just a relational one)

Data Lake
   In contrast, a data lake is built on top of some sort of big data environment rather than a traditional relational database.
 

Data warehouse vs Big data difference : 3 V's
1. Volume 
   Volume is one of the traditional 3 V's of big data.
   Big data and its usage in data lake helps us manage extremely large volumes of data larger than we typically would include even in the largest 
   data warehouses.
2. Velocity 
   Big Data also supports very rapid intake of new and changed data much more rapidly than we typically do with traditional data warehousing.
3. Variety.
   Our traditional data warehouse is mostly work with structured data numbers, dates, shorter length character strings and similar data types, which 
   big data easily supports.
   along with that bigdata supports semi's structured data such as text messages, emails, blogs and complex documents, as well as unstructured data 
   such as audio and video.
Some people think of data lakes as the next generation of data warehousing, and there is some truth to that point of view.
The 3 V's capabilities certainly open up possibilities not only for expanded data management, but likewise expanded decision making capabilities.
At the same time, though most organizations still have very robust data warehousing environments, even as they invest in big data technology to build data lakes.
In fact, 
The standard relational database language SQL provides not only the backbone of traditional BI busines intelligence, but also could be layered on top of a big data environment.
From a user perspective, traditional B.I can then be done against either a data warehouse or a data lake.